# gsgp-gd
Geometric semantic genetic programming with geometric dispersion operators

## Description
This project is a Java implementation of the Geometric Semantic Genetic Programming. It also includes the geometric dispersion operator, presented in the papers below.

## Instructions

### Directory structure:
* *src/edu/gsgp*: source code.
* *nbproject*: project files generated by NetBeans.
* *experiments*:
  * *data*: datasets used in the experiments.
  * *scripts*: parameter files.
* *dist*: The compiled version (jar).

### Usage

The parameter files are adjusted to work from the home directory. Thus, the folder *experiments* has to be copied to your home.
In order to execute the experiments, run the following command line:

```
	java -jar GSGP.jar -p path/to/parameter/file
```

with one of the parameter files inside the folders *bestGD* (for the experiments with GSGP+GD) and *gsgp* (for experiments without the GD operator).

### Parameters

The parameter files inside the directory *experiments/scripts* presents instructions for each parameter (presented as comments started with '**#**')

### Normalization Strategy

The normalization strategy is defined through the property `normalization.strategy` at parameters file (see [Parameters](#parameters)).

The allowed values for the `normalization.strategy` property are the following:

##### Logistic

Example:

```normalization.strategy = sigmoid```

##### Min-Max

Example:

```normalization.strategy = minmax```

##### Min-Max of alpha

To use this strategy you must define the amount of data will be taken into account. Thus, if you'd like to discard the 10% of lowest values and 10% of greatest values, the alpha will be 80. Alpha can be any integer value in the range [1 ,99].

Example:

```normalization.strategy = percentileminmax-80```

##### Logistic z-score

Example: ```normalization.strategy = zscoresigmoid```

***

The definitions and behavior of each of these strategies are described in paper **Strategies for Improving the Distribution of Random Function Outputs in GSGP**. (See [Published papers](#published-papers)).

## Published papers
* Luiz O. V. B. Oliveira and Fernando E. B. Otero and Gisele L. Pappa. **A Dispersion Operator for Geometric Semantic Genetic Programming**. Proc. of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference 2016, GECCO 2016, pp. 773–780, ACM, Denver, Colorado, USA, 2016, ISBN: 978-1-4503-4206-3, (Best Paper Award in Genetic Programming).
* Luiz Otavio V. B. Oliveira and Fernando E. B. Otero and Gisele L. Pappa. **A Generic Framework for Building Dispersion Operators in the Semantic Space**. Genetic Programming Theory and Practice XIV. 2016 (to appear).
* Luiz Otavio V. B. Oliveira and Felipe Casadei and Gisele L. Pappa. **Strategies for Improving the Distribution of Random Function Outputs in GSGP**. Proc of the European Conference on Genetic Programming 2017, EuroGP 2017.

